---
title: "Walter 2013"
date: "2013-02-09"
categories: 
  - "yoyos"
tags: 
  - "walter"
---

Folks! Apologies if you are one of the reserved and feeling neglected - I assure you Walter is moving forward steadily.

Updates:

- I have decided to run all 100 Walters at once. This means if you chose a sub-50 serial number just because you wanted to get it sooner - feel free to email me to update to any number you want (that is still available - see bottom of post).
- The production run is currently being finished in California, by Sonny of Anti-yo.  Every Walter will be wet blasted into Slip-Matte oblivion, and then hard coated with a Type III. There were no changes from the prototype, but a lot was learned.
- I will still need to assemble, test, sand (the finish is a bit too rough in the string zone), and serial all the production units once they arrive.  And then package.
- [Drew Tetz](http://cargocollective.com/drewtetz "Drew Tetz") and I are finalizing the logo - he is amazing if you don't know who he is you are seriously missing out
- My original packaging idea isn't going to work - so I am trying to figure out a local solution - stay tuned
- I am hoping mid-March they will start shipping out, but can't promise anything.
- Remember kids, this project has been in the works for almost THREE YEARS! The final touches will not be rushed. But I am eager to complete the project...

**Who do you want to see a Walter video from? I have a few ideas, but will always listen to suggestions.**

Serial numbers that remain:

_\[googleapps domain="docs" dir="spreadsheet/pub" query="key=0AljssLn7JvDhdFpQSEVXV3FCRkNUbzVjWWlxUDhDY2c&single=true&gid=1&range=A1%3AA65&output=html&widget=false" width="96" height="1200" /\]_
